Title: Professionals who enter people's homes (plumbers, electricians, cleaners): What is something the condition of a house tells you about the owner that they don't realize they are revealing?

--- Story ID nt3h5a2 ---
I insulate houses so I go into places like crawl spaces, knee walls, attics and other places that most people never see in their own homes. Sometimes, these are the cleanest areas in the house.

Side note: You are surrounded by spiders. Seriously, there's probably like 10 of them within 3 feet of you right now.

--- Story ID nt3urr8 ---
When the house is spotless except for one chaotic room, it usually means the person is holding everything together on the outside but is overwhelmed on the inside. You can read people’s stress levels by the corners they stop caring about.

--- Story ID nt3o8al ---
I used to groom special needs pets in their homes, and once was forced to wash and cut a dog in a bathroom with 3" of well-used cat litter on the floor. The only reason I didn't walk out and decline, was because I worked with the person at my 9-5 and didn't want to deal with the awkwardness at work every day... I sure did throw those clothes away when I got home, though.

--- Story ID nt3ypta ---
Plumber here - 

Everything.  If you just listen they tell you everything.  You just look at a mess, and they will tell you exactly who what where when and how of it.  50% is lies because they can't face themselves, but their posture give that away.  I used to judge. Now I just want to hug most people.  Life is tough and they are doing what they can to survive.  Yes sometimes that means they become drug addicts, what we consider waste cases.  So many hoarders.

There is a collective grief that is seems everyone is holding right now.  A longing for being allowed to put the fakeness down and just been accepted for who they are, mess and all.  To be real.

Everyone puts this world up on social media and wont allow anyone to come over for fear of breaking that image.  I've seen cold as ice spotless homes where working for days and you never hear the husband and wife talk to each other.  Other times they try to drop all their worlds problems on you.  Its not so much looking for conditions of their house to pick up clues.  You just need to stop talking and listen and most people never stop revealing.  Its like they were holding a breath just waiting.

--- Story ID nt3cdph ---
My husband is a pest controller and the things he sees would literally make your hair curl. 
Babies covered in bed bug bites, with parents who cannot be bothered to do the prep work needed such as washing the baby’s bedding before the treatment- I kid you not. 
Beds alive with bed bugs and living like it for YEARS. People living with rats as part of their normal life.

--- Story ID nt3jn5c ---
I do first calls multiple times a night for work. Which is removal of human remains from a residence.

I can tell it’s going to be a shit show if the cops leave when I show up.

One huge sign is an overflowing ashtray on the front porch, any lawn ornaments with that shitty led lighting, or any religious or political signage.

--- Story ID nt3p61m ---
I used to deliver furniture and appliances, and one of the store’s selling points was that we took the old items for free. 

Houses people smoked in were the worst. We replaced a sofa for a customer and when we pulled the old sofa away from the wall, there was an almost cartoonish outline of it. Except it was outlined by years of cigarette smoke. The walls were white, but stained yellow as you would expect. Beyond disgusting and sad to think about what it does to a person on the inside.

--- Story ID nt41xm7 ---
Not a direct answer but an anecdote. I'm a carpenter and mostly specialize in remodeling people's homes. 

Years ago, I was in a home, doing some work on a new master bed and bath setup on the second floor. While coming down the hallway, full of natural light, a picture on the wall caught my eye. I was viewing it from the side angle, so I couldn't see the picture directly as the light glanced off it, like I was viewing it from an a very flat angle, but I could see it was very geometric, lot's of straight intersecting lines. "Oh cool I wonder if it's an aerial view of the city or something". As I got in front of it and viewed it straight on, no... It was their wedding photo. I stepped to the side again and glanced across the flat plane of the glass again. Lots of lines. 

That's when I realized they were using their wedding photo to cut up lines of coke, and what I was seeing was the residue from that.

--- Story ID nt3uu0m ---
Maybe not what you’re looking for, but I once worked in a house in winter who had the fire place going with the flue shut. The house was blanketed in smoke and they disconnected all the smoke alarms. When I showed them how to open the flue, they both lost their minds. Apparently they’d been living like that for years. 

I would love to be that oblivious. It seems easier.

--- Story ID nt3j9rv ---
My dad did home renovations and repairs during the winter time. He has his top three awful homes … the worst being the piss house. He was called out for a bid on all new flooring, when he pulled up the smell hit him outside. He broke off two cigarette butt filters and shoved them up his nose and put an N95 mask on and stepped in. First thing that happened was the squishy carpets… every surface of the carpet was soaked down to the subfloor in animal urine. It ate all the way down through the sub flooring. The original hardwood floors were covered in black splotches of urine soaked areas. The house was lined with walkways shuffled and made through piles of piss filled boxes and trash. There were so many cats and dogs running around with shit covered paws. The cockroaches were so bad that they were visible in broad daylight. Needless to say, he called animal control and turned down the job.

--- Story ID nt4it9d ---
I used to be a cable guy. There are a ton of incidents where things were not okay in the home. A lot of people were dirty and messy, but they were fine people. There were a lot of people who were just plain weird, but they weren't doing anyone any harm. Every now and then, I'd come across a red flag situation that needed attention from someone with authority. Sometimes though, it was kind of a grey area where you really don't know what to do. 

There was a kid I met one time while working a job at an apartment complex. He answered the door. He was maybe 7 or 8 years old? Mom was running around looking like she was getting ready to leave. I was installing the free internet box for low income housing. There was no furniture anywhere other than a mattress in the living room next to a couch. The TV was on the floor. The kid was watching TV while I worked on the install.

I'm in the bedroom where there's nothing but dirty clothes on the floor and random boxes filled with stuff. That's where the cable line fed into for the internet, so my work was there. I heard mom say something to the kid and then the front door opened and closed. Mom was gone. I finished up and asked the kid where his mom went. He said she went to the store.

This wasn't the first time I was left babysitting someone's kids, but this was the youngest kid I was left with. He was just dead focused on the TV. I called Mom a few times and left her some messages. She wouldn't answer. I stuck around for a couple hours hoping she would show before I had to call the police. The kid showed me all his toys while we waited. Mom never showed up.

By the time the police came, it was already dark outside. I never was updated on what happened with the kid. If they found mom or if she came home. I don't know if that kid was taken into someone else's care. That was the only time I had to call the police for a situation like that. The parents, as irresponsible as they were, usually came home.

--- Story ID nt4va7u ---
Paramedic here. The causal filth is always present, probably 4/5 houses I go into are gross to super gross. I recently went into a penguin house: older couple, house was pristine (like a museum with a cleaning crew), and there were penguins everyfuckingwhere. Not live birds, hundreds and hundreds of little statues, paintings, life size statues, Lego penguins, photos, human size statues of penguins. I'd bet that they probably have 95%+ of all available penguin art represented in their home. It was one of those patient interactions where I was legitimately distracted by the things around me and I had to actively ignore the fucking penguins and focus on the human with the medical problem.

Anyway, one of these 65ish year old people has the Autism (like me) and they don't know it lol

--- Story ID nt3jujd ---
This one family had a lot of random, generic nature canvas around the place.  There were only a couple family photos.  It just felt like a doctors office.


While repairing, you could hear a pin drop in the home.  Maybe some occassional laughing and conversation.


I felt that their interior decor illustrated a family with no connection nor many hobbies to get by.  Almost like a hollow family, if that makes sense.

--- Story ID nt4b8zy ---
Former pest control tech here. Worked out of Las Vegas for about 7 years before switching to the trades 

Back in 2013, on my birthday. We used to pick up calls throughout the day, but in this day it was summer, the day was long, and I was tired and wanted to celebrate my birthday. Right as I was wrapping up my last call of the day, a call came in. A lady had bed bugs and wanted me to come and look.

I wish I had told them hell no and went home instead.

When I arrived, I was blown away. There were bed bugs crawling on the sofa in broad daylight. This was a bad infestation, they were everywhere! Her son was a grown man, sleeping on the couch in his underwear. As I stepped inside, the smell of dirt and B.O. and nasty was so pungent my clothes smelled like it when I left. 

I could also smell the crystal meth. I was familiar with the smell, though I never did it myself. It was a thick, heavy smell throughout the house.

The kicker was when I turned the corner and saw her young daughter and son (possibly her grandchildren? I never found out, they might have belonged to the underwear boy). They were probably four and seven years old. They were both naked. They looked malnourished, but they were both so sweet.

Combined with low pay, after 7 years as a bug guy, I didn't have much longer. Crap like that just sticks to you, I was traumatized by it. I left the industry a month later. I have tons of stories like this both good and bad, but this one stands out to me. I was an apprentice in the IBEW within two months of this.

When I got back to the office, I told my manager about it. He called CPS on her.

Edited for punctuation.

--- Story ID nt3kbdi ---
Not a tradie but grew up in a messy hoarder house. It is so embarrassing to have electricians etc. come over. I always hide in my bedroom and remain unseen, I can’t bear it. I don’t know how my parents are fine with it.

--- Story ID nt3hfti ---
you see a lot of unchecked mental illness. hoarding and severe depressions. recently went into an apartment where the entire carpet was wet, feces and urine from her 3 dogs everywhere. i wrote it up as a hazard and didn’t work in her unit.

--- Story ID nt3m1i6 ---
I clean because I do not want to trip on things. My brother tripped, hit his head and died instantly, age, 46, so, that”s a lesson learned. Dying tripping is true.

Edit: Thank you for those who replied. We are all eventually gonna die but ofcourse we want to delay the inevitable. He died of what he could have avoided. So, let’s just all take it as a lesson in life. Cleanliness really pays off.

--- Story ID nt3ko3r ---
I went into one house, a pretty nice house from outside, and there were boxes and boxes of stuff everywhere. My helper said to the homeowner, "Are you guys just moving in?" After a moment of silence the homeowner said, embarrassed,  "We've been here 10 years." I told my helper later not to ask people questions like that.

--- Story ID nt3me43 ---
Paramedic here. The people who have houses full of cheap, coordinated, meaningless decor are always assholes. Giant, boring abstract paintings or photos, a decorative bowl full of wicker balls, wooden signs with stupid phrases in cursive. Everything in beige, neutrals, grey. These houses always lack soul. They have too few pictures of loved ones. Too few decor pieces that someone chose because it's **cool and they actually like it**. It's all just disposable, trendy garbage. It's a mirror to their soul.

--- Story ID nt3i8j2 ---
I'm a cleaner, but most of the houses I clean are already fairly clean. I can definitely infer things about how "lived-in" the house is. I can tell the people who's fanily life is very important and have a lot of fun with their kids because their houses have messes in places, crayon drawings, projects, photos up a lot, and travel books or summer camp brochures. Other people might not have kids but have lots of pets, or cooking messes, artwork on all the walls. I can tell these people are home bodies sometimes but they try and live life to fullest.

Some people the vibe is....colder. less clutter or mess everything in its place. Less cooking oil and spices spilled on the stove, the furniture in the living room is less indented disturbed. Cleaned a house once where it looked like the husband and wife lived on opposite sides of the upstairs and hardly interacted.

--- Story ID nt3l40c ---
Lots of people here are talking about how gross people are. Some people are just quirky 

Went into someone’s house (mover) and everything was pink. Floor, walls, ceiling, furniture, their clothing, etc. 

Except their bedroom, that was lime green

--- Story ID nt3km64 ---
I had a job that that required me to enter homes to measure windows.  Many were messy, cluttered, and/or dirty.  One in particular was all three and had more dogs and cats than I could count.  Ironically the owner asked if I minded taking off my shoes which I usually did but this time I did so with a great deal of reluctance.   Sure enough, my very first step was into a puddle of urine.  Not sure if it was dog car or child, but definitely urine.  Started taking those little shoe covers with me everywhere after that !

--- Story ID nt3h43y ---
A big thing I noticed is the smell of houses, whether the owners keep windows open to air it out etc 

I've been in a lot of homes that the owners must have gone nose blind as the smell is so stagnant and stale, possibly even mouldy. I feel bad for the kids of these people cause there's been kids bedrooms that have never been aired out it seems.

--- Story ID nt3hs74 ---
Corporate banking by day, professional organizer on the side. My ex-husband was a legitimate hoarder, and even when it came time to sell the house as part of the divorce, he barely lifted a finger to help purge/declutter the marital home. Outcome? I was forced to clear out the entire house. I couldn't afford to hire professional help either, so the effort fell entirely on my shoulders. There was stuff piled floor to ceiling in every nook and cranny of our (now former) 4,000+ sq ft. house. Harrowing as the experience was, it was also inspiring, and so I launched my own small business doing home organizing/decluttering. 

Generally speaking? People with tremendous clutter tend to suffer with mental health issues, especially ADHD. Their inability/unwillingness to part with stuff breaks my heart — not only does it pose challenges during the decluttering journey, but my heart also breaks for them, because the clutter takes up extra space in their brain, too, and therefore causes extra stress in their lives.

--- Story ID nt3hb23 ---
This is making me feel better as I have a workman coming later this morning. I have some papers on the counter and I’m in the middle of wrapping Christmas presents, but that sounds fine compared to feces on the floor and weird smells.

--- Story ID nt3f9km ---
Used to sell floors and had to do in home appointments. I have seen some of the worst of the worst when it comes to messy. The one that did it for me was i went to an appointment for “Jessica”. I knock and an 8 year old boy opens with 2 malnourished dogs coming to sniff my shoes. I look around and there is trash and feces everywhere and the smell was unbearable. I ask the boy where is his mom Jessica. He says “my mom is in the mental hospital?” I said okay where is dad he says “i don’t know, he hasn’t been here in days” then the 8 year old boy goes to show me this gigantic hole in the floor. It was in fact the little kid who booked the appointment in his mom’s name. I told him “let me call my team to make sure i pick the right floor for this” stepped out, called my manager and told them about the situation and i immediately called the police for a welfare check. That was my last week as a in home flooring salesperson. I hope he is in better position now.

--- Story ID nt3n2iz ---
I will never eat a work pot luck or someone else's food that I don't know very, very well. I can't tell you how many times I've gone into a million dollar home that's absolutely disgusting. Well dressed people with good jobs that have piles of dog shit in the house or reek of piss so strongly you want to cover your nose. Piles of disgusting dishes all over the kitchen, floors never swept.  Its not just poor people in trailers, there are some really, filthy, dirty people of means. You're never sure who the gross ones are.

--- Story ID nt3fuk6 ---
As an electrician it hurts to see how society sidelines older women for jobs and pay 

  
i see way  more barely furnished house and units for single women than i do for men and i charge them way less as a result, is it good bussiness - no, but i have to sleep at night

--- Story ID nt3itrk ---
I used to work for a high end audio video installer. We went out to do service work on some in ceiling speakers. When we went in the owner took us to a large living room in the back, waited for us to stack up then said "when I open this door we need to enter as quickly as possible, and then shut the door again". A little weird, but after entering the room everything seemed normal. Until I saw the gold medals on the wall, and Mo Farah explained that the room was set to the oxygen level of 10k feet so he could train. Opening the door lowered that very quickly. Ya know, just Olympic athlete things

--- Story ID nt3earz ---
I once overheard my father and his friend, a plumber, talking. The state of bathroom tells how the owner of the house handle stress. Too clean = still in control, too messy = overwhelmed. I realized it's really true.

--- Story ID nt3lcyq ---
Former cable technician.
It told me that I do not know what someone is going through at the moment.
Right now my in-laws are living with me while their new home is being built and keeping a house clean with SEVEN children is the most uphill battle.

--- Story ID nt3gu98 ---
Photographer for real estate 

Once went into an apartment and pulled open the curtains, only for a rusted, rotten old used condom to fall down from the top of the curtain where it must have been tossed and got stuck/forgotten about.

No joke half the condom had turned to a rusty mess. Must have been there for years.

--- Story ID nt3jb4v ---
I’ve been in home remodeling for about 10 years now and in that time I’ve seen…. So much…. 

From a professional point of view: poorly maintained homes tell me I’m *going* to have a to upcharge for certain things because if the inside of the home looks this bad, god knows what’s going on under the hood. Also despite a dirty and neglected home, these people tend to be more likely to want the work done but they’re also unlikely to pass a credit check. Just seems to work out like this quite often. 

From a personal point of view: a home’s cleanliness and maintenance is often a reflection of the person(s) living there. People with clean and maintained homes tend to have this mirrored in their personality while very messy and neglected homes tend to be a mirror into the person(s) you’re speaking to. It’s honestly quite sad, cause when you’re inside someone’s home for 2-5 hours you’re inevitably going to have moments of getting to know one another and you’d be stunned how many of these folks treat you like a therapist cause they have *years* of being pent up with no one to speak to and you showing even the tiniest sliver of interest causes them to open the floodgates.

--- Story ID nt4h3ys ---
I used to paint home interiors. 40 years of being in other people's homes.

One customer was the retired municipal court judge. His house was neat as a pin. Almost minimalist, and tasteful. 

He wanted to have his basement floor epoxied. I told him it would take 2 days, I'd move everything to one side of the basement and paint half, then the next day I'd move everything to the other side and paint the cleared side. 

He gave me kindof a funny look and said let's go down to the basement and you can measure. Cool.

We go down there and besides the furnace the only other thing down there was a fold up ping pong table. The place was immaculate. You could eat off the concrete floor.

I have never seen anything like it. That's almost 40 years ago and it still amazes me. My basement is full of stuff. Old furniture, Christmas decorations, tools, you name it, it's down there. 

We folded up the ping pong table and slid it into it's niche and everything was good to go. Nothing even to sweep.

The judge ended up being a great client and a very sweet guy. He was very good to me over the years.

Most organized man I ever knew. 

It turns out he went to Annapolis and was a naval officer in WWII.  I wonder if that's where he got it, or if it just came naturally. Probably a little bit of both.

--- Story ID nt3ljbt ---
When I was a medical student, we had to do home visits to patients who lived in the area assigned to our clinic. In Brazil we have a public health program called “Saúde da Família” (Family Health Program), where community health workers regularly visit every household in the neighborhood to check basic living conditions (clean water, sewage, sanitation), make sure patients are taking their medications, and understand why they might be missing routine medical appointments. As students, we had to accompany them to experience firsthand how our health system actually works.

One day, we entered the house of a bedridden older man. The door was opened by a woman in her early twenties. We asked where he was, and she calmly said he had gone out. While the community health worker started looking around the house for him, I stayed talking to the young woman. The house was filthy. There were food containers and leftovers scattered everywhere, rats, and dirt. The smell was a mix of sour, rotten, and damp.

The health worker eventually found the man chained in a dark back room, with no light, lying on a mattress completely soiled with feces and urine. Although he was bedridden, he was fully conscious. He told us she had locked him there because he had used more than two diapers in one day, and that he had been kept like that for at least ten days. We immediately called the police, social services, and an ambulance. I know he stayed in the hospital for around twenty days to treat all his ulcers, and the young woman was arrested.

I can still remember the smell and the conditions he was living in. I have never forgotten that.